The last stage, I mean, in the maturity
is Stage 4, Evolving a Healthy Program.
And the shift from stage 3 to
stage 4 is also a mindset shift.
We talked a little bit about
that as we went from 2 to 3.
That was the mindset shift of
the design system team, right?
We're no longer only focused on adoption.
Now, we're thinking about all
these other challenges we have.
Well, Stage 4 is when the organization
as a whole has that mindset shift.
You've moved from being just another
product or just another tool to becoming
an influential leader
inside that organization.
And really, what's cool is that all the
stuff that you've been doing in Stage 3,
Stage 2 and Stage 1 is the exact
same stuff you have to do.
To earn that spot in Stage 4, and it's
really about consistency of that behavior.
When you find yourself in
the meeting where the talk,
where there's talk about finding a common
tech stack across all the products, right?
That's probably in Stage 4 because
you've demonstrated it's possible for
us to actually do this in
a really a healthy way.
We could build a system that could support
that single tech stack across all our
organization across all our products.
Or when you're consulted by the brand
team instead of informed by the brand
team, right?
When they come to you and say hey you,
you know what, we're thinking about
making some changes to the brand.
How would that impact all of these digital
touch points that we have out there?
That's a conversation instead of them
just saying to you this is changing,
make it happen.
Right, so that's a different
that's a different perspective
the organization is
taking toward the system.
Or when the way that people inside your
organization talk about the system,
as if it's elevated to
that place of respect.
You've probably that's another scenario
where you just have reached that Stage 4,
and that consistent behavior means
the system is trustworthy and predictable.
And there is not a single organization
on this planet that doesn't want
operational predictability, right?
If you can show that the system creates
predictability in the operations,
that means there's almost no risk for
them to invest in you, right?
That's a huge deal.
That means the design system,
in fact, is more than just a tool.
It is now the key to the organization
operating more efficiently,
operating better.
I remember really vividly a conversation
that I had with a subscriber inside
an organization with a Stage 4 system and
here's a quote from that interview.
He said, I have no hesitation in saying
the people working on the design system
and he listed a few names.
Are the smartest people in our company.
They mentor the other teams,
they're available to help us
tackle really hard stuff.
They are just helpful, respectful,
and really capable people.
And I love that.
That kind of illustrates what you're
looking for, not just those people, but
the system team as a whole, right?
And when I try to kind
of identify what is it?
What's the characteristic from
the outside looking in at a team that
really indicates that they're Stage 4.
It's this kind of proactivity
that I see them with, right?
And I think it's because others
are starting to look to them as leaders,
they start to take that on themselves.
And that means they're coming at
the problems ahead of them instead of
responding instead of
reacting to problems.
So early on in your system,
you're engaging with people and
you're a lot of times, you're just shaping
the system to meet the needs of folks.
But that's a very reactive stance, right?
Instead, Stage 4 systems are proactive.
They are constantly out there
understanding what's happening in
the industry,
as things shift they're aware of that.
A Stage 4 design system team sees that
change coming, and maybe they spike out
whether or not we can support that new
version of you or whatever it is, right?
And they are demonstrating how
the system can support those shifts that
are coming by the industry, and how the
system isn't able for that kind of growth.
They also help their subscribers
stay on top of what's coming.
They're sometimes aware of what's
going on throughout the organization,
because they interact with so
many different groups.
They're way beyond.
They have this organizational intelligence
that other product teams don't have,
because oftentimes
the product teams are siloed.
They don't talk to each other
as much as they should.
The system team becomes that place
of unity for the conversations.
So in this proactive system team,
they're actually facilitating the maturity
of the organization as a whole.
I mentioned this briefly earlier, but
there's this idea, I'm not quite sure how
to talk about this yet, but
the idea of like codifying that maturity.
Cuz I think I have seen a few scenarios
where maybe two or three interviews
I've done with different design systems
that I thought were in Stage 4,
like solidly in Stage 4.
And what happened is they lost a couple
folks from their design system team and
very quickly fell back
almost into Stage 2.
And it's because those
individuals were the ones making
the system sort of really solid.
There was too much dependence on
individuals in those scenarios, and
it was working, right?
So, they didn't see a need to make
a change, but all along what we have to do
is try to like embed this
goodness in the system itself.
So, if somebody has a set of processes
they use independently that are not part
of the system, they may do great work and
you might see really rapid maturity.
But until those things are codified and
included in the system and
become the way that we work, those
things go away when that person does.
So that's the big risk I see for Stage 4
teams, is when they're too dependent on
a personality or
a superstar or an individual.
So the way that you codify this stuff,
the way that you actually make an impact
in your organization,
is through stability and culture.